Hi, everyone, welcome to the second part of implementing a key Prust functionality.
All right, so we know that when we pressed the etch key, we got a negative one.
How do we know that?
We have pressed the key.
We could consider log that as well.
And now you guys know why we use consider log so much, because we are testing our application and also
our knowledge.
All right, apparently so let's click there and save it and click here.
And now let's go ahead and Pliss why?
And I guess you can see this is why and in return is negative one.
Why?
Does it return a negative one now, whenever you want to find you want to find the index of any item
inside an array?
You're going to find it using this method that says index of right.
So whenever you cannot find the index or whenever you're looking, let me rephrase it.
Whenever you're looking for an item that does not exist in your array, the index of that item is always
going to be minus one.
But that is inaccurate.
It is going to return minus one because minus one is return when something is not found.
Right.
So this index is not found.
That's why it returns minus one.
It doesn't mean that this is the index of why.
No, no, no.
If I were to come here and click e it is going to return minus one or T every time.
It doesn't matter.
It is going to return minus one because none of these keys.
Is actually inside this this array, whenever the key is not inside that array, it is going to return
minus one.
We are going to use this minus one logic as our final piece of this program, this project or Web application.
All right.
So now let's go ahead and press something that is inside this array.
So let's proceed.
We are going to get the index of zero shocker.
Of course, it is zero.
That's Press V. So the index of V should be zero one, two, three.
So we should get three.
So let's press V, we get three.
So now we can see that this works.
We could say Trish this and XXVI B in M zero one, two, three, four, five and six.
So we have successfully grabbed the indices of the white keys.
The same thing goes for the Black Keys.
So I don't have to like explain it again so we could just go ahead and test it.
And in here I'm just going to pass in black.
All right.
Right, so let's process.
Block.
K, this is all capital.
My key is not defined, so cool, so cool.
All right, so now let's play what is up here.
Black is right.
Let's press as we get zero D, we get one G to each three and four.
And if I were to press, okay, we are going to get minus one.
It is not there.
So now let's go ahead and let's remove these and let's remove these line breaks.
All right, all right, so now we are we are getting close, and for our final piece, we are going
to implement an if statement and we are going to say if the white key index is greater than minus one
and I'm going to explain that, then run the plane out function and the plane of function has a parameter.
So we should in the function call pattern and argument, the argument is going to be white keys.
And where is this white keys?
It is this that we have selected in there and the white keys.
We do not want all of them to be played.
We want a certain white key to be played.
And where do we grab that certain white key?
We grab it using this index, which we have just found.
Let's save it.
Let's click.
Perfect.
All right.
Now, the clicking worked before as well.
So now let's click on the zip.
It works.
We could map them as well.
We could take a look at them in here as well.
We could just say key.
I don't know, like key.
So if I click we get X, CVB and M.
All right.
So now we are clicking those.
So what does the statement says if the white key index is greater than minus one?
So, you know, we have this like coordinates where we have minus two, minus one, then we have zero,
then we have one, then we have two, then we have three.
Now this is the number of coordinates.
So what is greater than minus one.
The greater than minus one is zero.
And what is zero in this context?
Zero is the index of the first item inside this array.
So whenever the white key index is greater than one, then we call the play function playing out function.
And I hope that is clearer now.
Whenever we get a value which is greater than minus one, we get to play this piano.
All right.
If it is not greater than minus one, we do not play this piano.
What does that mean?
We get minus one whenever we play a key that is not inside this array.
For example, if I click there and if I press like the A key, we are going to get the arc.
But the arc, he doesn't play this piano because it's not included in here.
And how do we know that?
Because it is going to return negative one.
And this if statement is not going to run this play note function.
This is why if statements are cause the like controlling the logic flow or the flow of the logic of
the program, that's why if statements are a crucial part of any programming language and when it is
greater than minus one, it means either it's zero, it's one, it's two or whatever, then we get to
play this piano.
So now if I click on Z, Z has an index of what it has an index of zero from this area and zero is greater
than one, a greater than minus one.
And this if statement holds true and when it holds true, then we get to play the piano.
Right now the White Keys is done.
What about the Black Keys?
So we are going to say the white key and I'm just going to grab all of them and I'm going to change
them with black.
So let's click on this.
It is going to play or not claque.
Of course, let's say it doesn't play as place D plays.
F doesn't play G plays H plays J Place K does not play.
So this is how this works.
I'm going to go over this syntax one more time.
If the index that we have find sorry if the index that we have found is greater than minus one and minus
one is returned, whenever that specific key that we have entered inside this array is not played is
not pressed when the index which is found is greater than minus one, then we play the piano.
When the index is less than minus one, we do not play the piano, and in which case it is less than
minus one.
In the case that none of these keys has been pressed.
So I can show you this in a better way as well, how this actually works.
So let's go ahead and comment that out in front.
And I'm just going to grab one.
Come on, buddy.
What am I doing?
Give it to me.
All right, so so let's instead of playing, let's do something else, let's say.
I'm just going to say return true, right?
Let's do that and let's go Tanzy.
It is going to return to it is going to return the zek.
Okay, that's canceled unless you do that.
And that's Klick.
It doesn't do anything, so let's do some sort of calculation.
So consider log, let's say two plus two.
So now whenever the Black Keys oh, it is the black index, the black index is greater than minus one,
we are going to run to the cost of two plus two.
So if I click on this, it is going to run two plus two because this condition holds true.
And when this condition holds true, the piano is going to play.
What if I click on another key?
So let's save it.
Let's do it one more time.
So if I click on S, it is going to run that because X is included inside this array so that this condition
holds true.
What if this condition does not hold true?
So we should not see anything inside the concert.
Right.
So if I click on the E, we don't see anything inside the console because this condition is not true.
The code does not run.
That's it.
That's how simple it is.
So let's get these guys in and save them and let's go full screen.
And now that's X CVB in M and SD g h i.
If I click on any other key, I'm sure you can hear it is not going to play anything.
So go ahead, play it note and enjoy it.
That's it for this.
Let's see you guys in the next one.